# Introduction to App Store Deployment

These days, it seems that everyone wants to build mobile apps. Even web
developers.

The bad news is that there are too many technologies involved and the
process can be somewhat convoluted. Apple certainly does its best to
complicate things.

The good news is that you do not have to ignore standard Web
technologies such as HTML, JavaScript, and TypeScript.

![A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically
generated](media/image20.png){width="4.5in" height="2.53125in"}\
\
If you are a web developer and want to build mobile apps, but you do not
want to take the time to learn native mobile development technologies,
then this book is for you.

I will show you not only how easy it is to build your own app, but also
how fun it can be.

You will see how you can quickly take your existing Web application and
deploy it to the Apple App Store and make it available to millions of
iOS devices.

Take a look at these apps.

![A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically
generated](media/image21.png){width="4.5in" height="2.53125in"}

Each one of them is a Web application wrapped in an Xcode project and
deployed to the App Store. And these are just the few that I built
myself. Almost a third of all apps in the Apple App Store are built with
Web technologies. How amazing is that?

Now it is your turn. Get your favorite Web app ready and join me on this
fast-paced journey to enter the world of mobile application development.

This section is about one thing and one thing only. Getting your web
application onto the Apple App Store, where it will then be available to
the tens of millions of iOS users all over the world. 

In this book, I will show you how to get a web application prepared and
deployed to the Apple App Store.

How are you going to do that? With Capacitor from Ionic.

Capacitor is a modern piece of technology that will allow you to wrap an
existing web application in an Xcode project and then deploy it to the
Apple App Store. This book will cover the basics you need to take one of
your own web apps (or you can use one of mine if you prefer) and turn it
into a function iOS app. 

When you are finished, you should be able to replicate the process with
every web app you want to put in the hands of iOS owners everywhere.

