# Creating the App Store App

The next major step is getting the built application to the App Store.

But first, you need a place to put it.

You need to go to Appstore Connect to create the application before you
can upload it.

To do that, open a browser to <https://appstoreconnect.apple.com> and
log in with your Apple developer account.

Once you are logged in, it shows you all the applications that you have
currently got on the App Store.

![A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically
generated](media/image34.png){width="4.5in"
height="2.369167760279965in"}

This is my Apps list. You can see a few of them with the red badges and
the word "Rejected" next to them. There are many reasons for this: Apple
policy violations, potential copyright issues, or even value judgments
by Apple.

I am not going to go into any more details here. Just be aware that
Apple is known to reject applications, sometimes for bizarre reasons.

## Create New Application Bundle

To create a new application, simply click the blue plus icon and select
"New App."

![A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically
generated](media/image35.png){width="4.5in"
height="2.504032152230971in"}

### Bundle ID

On the popup window that appears, click on "Certificates, Identifiers &
Profiles."

![A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically
generated](media/image36.png){width="4.5in"
height="4.834027777777778in"}

On the next screen, enter a simple description for the ID. This is what
will appear in the Bundle ID dropdown on the previous page.

Select an Explicit Bundle ID and enter the exact same string you entered
in Xcode.

![A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically
generated](media/image37.png){width="4.5in"
height="3.4659722222222222in"}

### Application Capabilities

Apple also wants to know what iOS features that you are planning to use
in this application. In my demo app, I am not planning for any of these,
so I left them all blank.

Scroll through the list and select only those capabilities you know your
app will need.

When you are finished, click, the Continue button.

## Create New App

Unfortunately, you may need to start the new app process again. If so,
click New App... again.

Look at the Bundle ID drop down and you should see your new ID.

Complete the form as you did before using this example if necessary.

![A screenshot of a cell phone Description automatically
generated](media/image38.png){width="4.5in"
height="4.618055555555555in"}

There is no need to limit your users. That is beyond this tutorial.
Anyone who wants to can download it. Click Create, which will return you
to the Apps page.

At this point, you can stop. There is a lot more to be done here, but
the purpose of doing this was simply to get an app created so that you
can upload the application.

